1. Mankind is subdued by its indecision; he who considers evil passions as pure, increases and
multiplies his passions and adds to the strength of his bonds.

2. He who continually keeps present in his mind that the quieting of indecision is peace, and
that it is not agreeable, frees himself from all lust and destroys his bonds.

3. Desires envelop one as it were in darkness; one is torn to pieces by delighting in lust;
the heedless are held fast by their bonds, as are fish to their watery homes.4 (284). Beings
who give themselves up to their heedlessness, their lustfulness increases as does a creeper;
they run after old age and death as does the calf after its mother when longing for
milk.

5 (334). He whose mind is impure and who is passionate, and who seeks after happiness, runs
hither and thither in the orb (of birth), like the monkey in the forest seeking for fruit.

6 (342). Continually longing for happiness and walking in the way of birth and death, mankind
is led on by its passions, and runs about like a hare in a net.

7. They who are held in the folds of lustfulness, who care only for what concerns existence
(lit. existence and not existence), the fools delighting only in the enjoyments of attachment
(yoga) will find suffering again and again.

8. Beings who are without righteousness (correct religious views) and peace of mind, who have
all the attachments of Mars (sinful attachments), run after old age and death as does the
calf after its mother when longing for milk.

9. He who casts off lust and the like, who is without affection for what is or is not existence,
the Bhixu? has conquered existence and will attain the perfect and unsurpassable nirvâṇa.

10 (335). He who has cast off the world, which is hard to do, must become insensible to love
for women (or women’s love), for it increases sorrow as does a shower the (birana) grass.

11 (336). He who has cast off the world, which is hard to do, and has become insensible to love
for women, sorrow falls from off him as does the water drop from theotus.

