11 (274). There is no other road but this one that leads to perfect enlightenment; by concentrating
your mind on it you will cast off the bonds of Mâra.

12. This way is straight: it leads one to the other world; it is the one road to the ocean of
purity. Çakyamuni, well composed and wise, expounds this again and again to the multitude.

13. Having discovered the ending of birth and death, through kindness and compassion I will
teach the way, the only road. After having crossed the stream (of sin), I will teach others
to cross as I have crossed.

14. The way to reach complete cessation (from existence): control, purity; the way to put an
end to the recurrence of birth and death; the means of distinguishing all the dhâtus:4 that
is what he who has the eye (of wisdom) teaches by this way.

15. As the waters of the Ganges flow swiftly on and empty into the ocean, so likewise he who
walks in the even way of perfect knowledge shall arrive at the cessation of death?

16. He who, through compassion towards all creatures, does turn the wheel of the law, heretofore
unheard, the Protector, the teacher of gods and men, he who has arrived at the end of
corporeal existence, him do (I) worship?

17. By obtaining the perception of the three happinesses? and by casting off the three unhappy
things: one will by these perceptions, and by attending to them, arrive at peace: (it is)
as the dust (râga) laid by the rain, when the mind and manner are at peace, one then enjoys
the felicity of the unsurpassable bodhi

18. His mind attached to the three kinds of samSdhi,5 he meditates in solitude on the (four)
immeasurables; thus does the reflective and wise man undo the knots,’ and tear (himself away)
from the three regions (of desire) by means of the three?

19. He who has wisdom for a weapon, diligence as his might, who iscreflective,10 well composed,
and who delights in meditation (samâdhi), having comprehended the origin and destruction
of worldly (existence), will obtain perfect emancipation: he who has comprehended the ending
of worldly (existence), he, I declare, is called "one who has put an end to worldly
(existence) and has arrived at the other (shore)."

20. He whose mind is concentrated on the holy eightfold way, the straight way, has found the
immortal (lit. amrita); by following it he finds the much-longed-for happiness, and by finding
what is so praiseworthy he increases (his) fame?

Chapter on " The Way," the Twelfth.

BOOK II. XIII HONOURS (Satkâra)

