1 (144). IF a good horse is struck with a whip, he is frightened and exerts himself with all
his strength; so likewise when one is full of faith, morality, and meditation (samâdhi),
having never aught to do with the phenomenal world (dharma), having his senses well composed,
patient, and glad, thus goaded on he leaves the world completely behind?

2. If a good horse is struck with a whip, he is frightened and exerts himself with all his strength;
so likewise when one is full of faith, morality, and meditation, having never aught
to do with the phenomenal world, having knowledge and (observing) the fundamental (rules):
thus goaded on he casts away every particle of misery.

3 (143). They who are well subdued, like well-broken horses, whose senses are so well controlled
as to keep down anger, putting thus an end to sorrow, these Munis will soon be rejoicing
among the gods.

4. The pure man has no intercourse with the careless, the vigilant with the slothful, as the
good horse who is wise leaves the wild horses and wanders (alone).

5. He who minds modesty and knowledge as a good horse does the whip, and who is well composed
by wisdom, cleanses himself of sin.

6 (321). The tamed (horse) is made to go to the place of assembly; the king rides the tamed
(horse); the best among tamed men is he who patiently endures abuse.

7 (322). Better than the largest of elephants, than thoroughbred Sindhu horses, than well-broken
mules, is he who tames himself.

8 (323). With one’s own well-tamed self one can reach peace, but with these other modes of conveyance
it is not possible to reach that state.

9. Better than the largest of elephants, than thoroughbred Sindhu horses, than well-broken mules,
is he who tames himself.

10. With one’s own well-tamed self one can arrive at the end of affliction, but with these other
modes of conveyance it is not possible to reach that state.

11. Better than the largest of elephants, than thoroughbred Sindhu horses, than well-broken
mules, is he who tames himself.

12. With one’s own well-tamed self one can cast off humanity, but with these other modes of
conveyance it is not possible to reach that state.

13. Better than the largest of elephants, than thoroughbred Sindhu horses, than well-broken
mules, is he who tames himself.

14. With one’s own well-tamed self one will depart, having severed one’s bonds, but with these
other modes of conveyance it is not possible to reach that state.

15. He who would be tamed like a good horse must tame himself; with the self well tamed one
reaches the end of affliction.

