10. He who lives a hundred years without knowing the ideal knowledge that is hard (to arrive
at)! a life of one single day is better if one knows the ideal knowledge that is hard (to
arrive at).

11. He who lives a hundred years without perceiving what is most exalted: a life of one single
day is better if one perceives what is most exalted.12. He who lives a hundred years without
perceiving the perfection of the holy (law), a life of one single day is I[( 04,1)]
better if one perceives the perfection of the holy (lam, i.e., nirvâṇa)?

13. He who lives a hundred years without perceiving the perfect cessation of death, a life of
one single day is better if one perceives the perfect cessation of death.14. He who lives
a hundred years without perceiving the most perfect amrita? a life of one single day is
better if one perceives the most perfect amrita.15. He who lives a hundred years without perceiving
perfect passionlessness,3 a life of one single day is better if one perceives perfect
passionlessness.16. He who lives a hundred years without perceiving the perfect absence
of passion: a life of one single day is better if one perceives the perfect absence of
passion (raga)?

17 (107). If a man live for a hundred years in a forest, wholly relying on. the fire (Agni),
and if he but for one single moment pays homage to a man who meditates on the self, this
homage is greater than sacrifices for a hundred years.

18. He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part. of him who has faith in the Buddha.

19 (70). He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not
worth the sixteenth part of him who has faith in the holy law.

20. He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part of him who has faith in the church (Sangha).

21. He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part of him who is merciful to sentient creatures.

22. He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part of him who is merciful to animated creatures.

23. He who month after month eats his food with a tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part of him who is merciful to beings (bhuta).24. He who month after month
eats his food with the tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth the sixteenth part of
him who seeks to show kindness.

25. He who month after month eats his food with the tip (of a blade) of kuça grass, is not worth
the sixteenth part of him who explains well the holy law.

