11. He who strives but feebly, who has little intelligence and no learning, will not find nirvâṇa,
that destruction of all bonds.

12 (369). The pilot of this boat makes it light; so if you cast away hatred and passions, you
will reach nirvâṇa?

13. If what has formerly been born is not born, there will be produced that which is not born
(the elementary); that which is not born (the elementary) not producing (compound things),
there is an end to production itself.

14. He who perceives what is difficult to see (suffering), and who heeds not uncertain happiness,3
who understands the truth and has knowledge, who sees the nothingness of desires (trichnâ)
and (worldly) joy, he who is like unto this has put an end to suffering.

15. Having cast off desires (trichnâ), having cast away passions, (I am) like unto a dried-up
lake that flows no more; he who is like unto this puts an end to suffering.

16. He whose sensations (vedanâ) have become cool, whose perceptions (sandj) are suppressed,
whose being (sanskâra) is at rest, whose consciousness (viññaṇa) has disappeared ; he who
is like unto this puts an end to suffering.

17. He who has perceived what ought to be seen, who has heard what ought to be listened to,
who has understood what ought to be understood, who knows perfectly what ought to be known
perfectly; he who is like this puts an end to suffering: he who only longs for the thing
which ought to be longed for (i.e., to be at rest), he who is like unto this puts an end to
suffering.

18 He who delights not in what is tangible, who is at peace, who casts off every passion; he
who is like unto this puts an end to suffering.19. From the source (ignorance) springs the
commission (of sins); from the commission springs the binding (to their consequences); from
the binding springs that which is not to be removed (transmigration); from that which
is not to be removed springs going and coming; from going and coming springs suffering another
death; from having to suffer another death springs another birth, and old age, disease,
death, sorrow, misery, affliction, unhappiness, disagreeabilities are created; and in this
manner does one bring on oneself a great amount of suffering?20. There being no source
(ignorance), there is no commission; there being no commission (of sins), there is no binding
to (their consequences); there being no binding, there is not that which is not to be
removed; there not being that which is not to be removed, there is no going and coming; there
being no going and coming, there is no suffering another death; there beingx suffering
another death, there is not another birth, and old age, disease, death, sorrow, misery,
affliction, unhappiness, disagreeabilities are stopped; and in this way one puts an end to
a great amount of suffering.

21. Bhixus, the uncreated, the invisible, the unmade, the elementary, the unproduced, exist
(as well as) the created, the visible, the made, the conceivable, the compound, the produced;
and there is an uninterrupted connection between the two.22. Bhixus, if the untreated,
the invisible, the unmade, the elementary, the unproduced was nonentity, I could not say
that the result of their connection from cause to effect with the created, the visible, the
made, the compound, the conceivable was final emancipation.

