23. Bhixus, it is because of the real existence of the uncreated, the invisible, the elementary,
the unproduced that I say that the result of their connection from cause to effect with
the created, the visible, the made, the compound, the conceivable is final emancipation.

24. The impermanency of the created, the visible, the made, the produced, the compound, the
great torment of subjection to old age, death, and ignorance, what proceeds from the cause
of eating;4 (all this) is destroyed, and there is found no delight in it; this is the essential
feature of final emancipation. Then there will be no doubts and scruples; all sources
of suffering will be stopped: and one will have the happiness of the peace of the sanskâra?

25. Bhixus,’ it (nirvâṇa) is neither in earth, or in water, fire, or wind.

26. It (nirvâna) is not in a spiritual state (âyatana) in the immensity of space, nor in a spiritual
state of infinite wisdom, nor in a spiritual state in the region of nothing, nor
in a spiritual state in the region where there is no conception (and) where there is not no
(conception); it is not in this world or in another world; it is not in either the sun or
the moon: these (ideas) are not, I assert, the correct conception (of it).

27. Bhixus, as I say it does not exist with going and coming, it is what is not existence; as
I do not say it exists where there is death, it is not to be born: this then is the end
of suffering?

28. It (nirvâṇa) does not exist in either earth, water, fire, or wind;6 in it white (and the
other colours) are not visible; in it there is not even darkness; in it the moon does not
shine, nor does the sun send forth its rays.

29. He who is a Muni and a Brâhmana, and who is consequently wise, is delivered from the material
(rûpa) and the immaterial (arûpa), and from all kinds of suffering.

30. He who has reached the end and is without fear, is without pride and without sin; having
left behind the pains of existence, he has a body for the last time.

31. This is the chief (beatitude) of those who have reached the end, perfect and unsurpassable
peace (amatam padam), the destruction of all characteristics, the perfection of perfect
purity, the annihilation of death.

32. The Muni having cast off the sanskâra of existence (and also) like and unlike, by delighting
in perfect composure he has broken the shell of the egg of existence and goes out (of
the world).

