31. He who has done what is right is free of fear; he may have done it long ago or afar off,
he may have done it in solitude; he is without fear, and when it (i.e., his good deed) has
ripened he is without fear.

32. He who has done what is evil brings grief (on himself); though he has done it long ago or
afar off, it brings sorrow; he may have done it in solitude, it brings sorrow; and when
it has ripened it brings him sorrow.33. When one has seen one’s evil deeds, one has sorrow
here and one will have sorrow in the other world; the evil-doer has sorrow in both places;
he mourns and will greatly sorrow.

34. He who has done what is right is made happy; (though) he has done it long ago and afar off,
he is made happy; he may have done it in solitude, (but) he is made happy; and when it
has ripened it brings him joy.

35 (16). When one has seen one’s righteous deeds, one rejoices here and will also rejoice in
the other (world); he who has done what is right rejoices in both places; he is made glad,
he will be exceedingly joyful.

36. He who has done what is evil is made to suffer; though he has done it long ago, though he
has done it afar off, he is made to suffer; though he has done it in solitude, he is made
to suffer; and when it has ripened it brings him suffering.37 (17). When one has seen one’s
evil deeds: one suffers in this (world); one will suffer in the next (world); the evil-doer
suffers in both; he suffers and he will greatly suffer.

38. He who has done what is right is made happy; (though) he has done it long ago, (though)
he has done it afar off, he is made happy; though he has done it in solitude he is made happy;
and when it has ripened he is made happy.39 (18). When one has seen one’s righteous deeds
one rejoices here and will rejoice in the other world; he who has done what is right
rejoices in both places; he is made glad, he will be made exceedingly joyful.

40. He who has done evil and has not done what was right, who strays away from the law, who
is an unbeliever, the wicked man is in fear of death, like one on a great river in a leaky
(lit. bad) boat.

41. He who has been virtuous and has done what is right, who follows the doctrines of the holy
men of old: he has never any fear of death, like one in a strong boat which can reach the
other shore?

Chapter on Sin, the Twenty-eighth.

XXIX DAY AND NIGHT.

