10. There are those who practise morality, the precepts, good behaviour, who lead a life of
holiness (brahmachariya), and there is an extreme which is to devote oneself to asceticism.

11. And there is another extreme in which they say: "Desires are pure; though one has desires
he is virtuous; desires are to be indulged in; desires have nothing sinful in them." These
men are swallowed up by their desires. (The followers of) both these extreme (theories),
frequenting mostly burial-places, are called " frequenters of burial-places " (sosâniko).

12. Neither of these extremes see (the cause of suffering), so part of them are filled with
desires, and part of them are wildly running about; 1 they who can see perceive how full of
desires they are, and how they run about.

13. They who can see, perceive that if these two extremes could but see, they would give up
desires and cease running (after them); so they have no desires, and do not run about (after
them). As they do not thus, as they think not thus (i.e., as the two extremes), as they
are not held in this way, they have found the end of suffering.

14 (170). He who looks on the world as a bubble, who considers it as a mirage, the king of death
will not see him.

15. He who looks on the body as a bubble, who considers it as a mirage, the king of death will
not see him.

16 (171). Look always at this body as at a beautiful royal chariot; the fool delights in it,
the wise man has no fondness for it.

17. Look always at this body as at a beautiful royal chariot; the fool is deceived by it, the
wise man is not deceived by it.

18. Look always at this body as at a beautiful royal chariot; the fool is brought low through
it, like an old elephant sunk in the mud.

19. Look always at this body as sick and subject to decay, as a wounded man, as changing and
impermanent.

20. Look at this body, ornamented with jewels, bracelets, and ear-rings, as diseased and subject
to decay, as changing and impermanent.

21. The fool in his stupidity adorns his curls, paints his eyes with collour, and seeks not
after the other world.

