1. A BHIXU who is satisfied with what alms are given him, and who frets not about what is given
to others, who is protected by continual passionlessness and reflection, him the gods
do delight in.

2. A Bhixu who is satisfied with what alms are given him, and who frets not about what is given
to others, who is protected (by passionlessness and reflection), and in whom the gods
delight, in such a one there is no desire for honours, riches, and fame.

3. A Bhixu who has cast off all desires, is free from passions, though having before him (the
objects of desire); the steadfast one, who is without selfishness and is .controlled, ought
not to hold intercourse with others.

4. Hurt by the words of uncontrolled men, and listening to the words of the ill-natured, the
Bhixu is without anger what ere occurs, like the elephant pierced by arrows on the battlefield.5.
Hurt by words of uncontrolled men, and listening to the words of the ill-natured,
the Bhixu is equally composed what ere occurs, like the elephant pierced by arrows on the
battlefield.

6. Not exercising any handicraft for the gratification of the self, his senses under control,
perfectly emancipated, without fondness for a home, without selfishness, having cast off
desires and living all alone, that man is a Bhixu .

7 (375). Associating only with men whose lives are pure and who are without slothfulness, observing
the different prescriptions,3 one will learn the necessary rules to follow in life
(to acquire nirvâṇa).

8 (362). He who controls his hands, who controls his feet, who controls his speech, who controls
his -senses, who finds all his pleasure in solitude, who is contented, him I call a Bhixu.

9 (364). The Bhixu who finds perfect joy in the law, who delights in the law, who meditates
on the law, who bears in mind the law, will never depart from the law.

10 (373). The Bhixu having entered an empty abode and seeing the innermost (part of the law),
will experience divine joy on perceiving the law rightly.

11. As soon as he has rightly understood the creation and destruction of the skandhas, he will
find joy and ravishment; the Bhixu filled with joy will find the way to put an end to suffering.

