23. He for whom there are no pleasures in the future, who feels no pain on account of those
he has left behind, who has thrown off the bond of voluptuousness, who has conquered in the
fight (against Mâra), he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

24. Re for whom there are no pleasures in the future, who feels no pain on account of those
he has left behind, who is immaculate, dispassionate, without sorrow, he, I declare, is a
Brâhmana.

25. He who nourishes not the smallest desire, who is subdued, who is devoted to (acquiring)
the chief thing (nirvâṇa), who has destroyed sinfulness (âsravas), who is cleansed from stains,
he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

26 (385). He for whom there is neither this side nor that side, who has reached the end of all
conditions, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

27. He for whom there is neither this side or that side, who is without fondness for the three
objects: he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.28 (409). He who takes nothing in this world, whether
it be short or long, thin or thick, good or bad, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

29. He then who, having wisdom, puts an end to his suffering, being without passions, free from
everything, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

30. He who has cast off both virtue and vice, who is divested of everything, who is without
passion (râga), at peace, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

31. He who has left behind all fondness for virtue and vice, who has left fondness behind, who
is perfectly emancipated, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

32. He for whom there is no behind, before, and between, who is without passion (râga), freed
from bondage, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana?

33. He who, like water on the leaf of a lotus, like a mustard seed on the end of a reed: does
not adhere to vice, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.34 (401). He who, like water on the leaf
of a lotus, like a mustard seed on the end of a reed, does not adhere to pleasures, he,
I declare, is a Brâhmana.35. He who, like water on the leaf of a lotus, like a mustard seed
on the end of a reed, has thrown off delight in existence, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana

