34. He who, though virtuous, or an ascetic, or one who has heard much, has not been able to
put an end to sinfulness though he lives in solitude, if he becomes wearied of seeking to
obtain samâdhi, and gives it up through want of confidence, he is not a Bhixu.

35. The elements of being (skandha), that are called the individual, are the afflictions of
this world; perfect enlightenment (samyaksambodhi) is happiness; to it the elect must devote
themselves.

36. According to the way one has thought, so shall he become in another (life); they will come
back again to this world, they who love existence, who delight in existence, who long for
worldly goods, who consider but existence (in their theories), who delight in existence
itself.

37. Their joy is but suffering, their happiness but trembling with fear; they who would free
themselves of existence, devote themselves to a life of purity (brahmacharya).

38. Çramanas and Brâhmana all do teach that existence is deliverance from existence; they none
of them know deliverance from existence, I declare.39. Çramanas and Brâhmana all do teach
that existence is deliverance from existence; they none of them know real emancipation
from existence, I declare.

40. Suffering is the outcome of attachment to existence (upâdâna), and from suffering proceeds
attachment: if all attachments are destroyed there will not be produced any more suffering.

41.To whatever form of existence one has attachment: it is impermanent, miserable, subject to
change;" he who by perfect knowledge regards them all in this light, will cast off all fondness
for existence, and will find delight in the destruction of existence.

42. Then the Bhixu who has left sorrow behind (nibbuta) is safe, (for) being without attachment
to another (existence), he will put an end to existence; subduing Mâra, conquering in
the fight, he will then be delivered from all existences: this is the end of suffering.

43. The Bhixu who has cut himself off from existence (bhava), who is dispassionate, whose mind
is at peace, will not experience existence again, having fallen out of the orb of regeneration.44.
The Bhixu who has cut himself off from existence, who is dispassionate, whose
mind is at peace, is freed from the bonds of Mâra, having fallen out of the orb of regeneration.

