41. He whose mind is well composed (not given to anger), delights in living alone (like) the
largest of elephants, the elephant with goodly tuskse

42. He whose mind knows no harm, who is kind to all creatures (bhuta), who is merciful to creatures,
there never arises any ill feeling in him?43. He who knows no evil thoughts, who
is kind to all creatures, who is merciful to all living beings, there never arises any ill
feeling in him.44. He who knows no evil thoughts, who is kind to creatures, who shows mercy
to all sentient beings, there never arises any ill feeling in him.45. (Repetition of verse.)46.
He who is kind to all his acquaintances, to all his friends, and to all creatures,
and who entertains a spirit of mercy, will greatly increase his happiness.

47. If one has but thoughts devoid of cruelty for living beings, and shows mercy, he is by this
fact virtuous; if one shows a compassionate heart to all sentient beings, he will attain
such merit as is acquired by the elect (ariya).

48. The man who with a joyous mind, without faintheartedness, observes the laws of virtue: will
arrive at perfection and happiness.

49. Emancipated by perfect knowledge, he is safe and at rest; his mind being at rest, the actions
of his body and his words are quiet.

50. Thus, by having the mind fixed on one point, one obtains perfect comprehension of the law,
but it is not by having cymbals on the five limbs that one will find joy.

51. They whose minds delight in meditation find no enjoyment in desires; he who is shielded
from the smallest affliction will enjoy blissful slumber.

52. They whose minds delight in meditation find no enjoyment in desires; he who is troubled
by no affliction whatever will find great joy.

53. He whose mind, like a rock, remains without being moved, who in the midst of passions is
without passions, in the midst of anger is without anger, with a mind such as this it is
not possible to experience suffering.

54 (185). Speak no abuse, do no harm, be firm in the observance of the Pratimoxa, know how to
be moderate in your food, take up your abode in a remote forest, and you will find peace
of mind in spiritual insight (vipaçyana); this is the doctrine of the Buddha.

