31 (371). Delight not thy mind in seeking what is dazzling; keep thy mind diligent and pure,
that thou mayest not for thy wicked deeds, being born in hell, have to weep on swallowing
the iron ball.

32 (280). He who remains seated when it is time to rise, who, though strong and young, sits
slothfully at home, who is always careless in his thoughts, will not find the road to wisdom.

33. They who, though understanding what is trifling (i.e., desires), and understanding (the
importance of) passionlessness, have their innermost mind still disturbed,’ have not thorough
understanding; their minds are deceived, and they wander about (in the orb of transmigration)
again and again.

34. They whose memory is perfectly developed, who are diligent, who discriminate, the wise,
they have understanding, and by means of their intellect. they cast away every one of the
errors in the interior of the mind.

35 (40). He who has discerned that this body is like a vase, having by his thoughts made this
(idea) as lasting as a citadel, fights Mâra with wisdom as a weapon; ,and having overcome
him, he will keep to a houseless state?36. He who has discerned that this world is like
a vase (i.e., empty), having by his thoughts made this (idea) as lasting as a citadel, fights
Mâra with wisdom as a weapon; and having overcome him, he will keep to a houseless state.

37. He who has discerned that this body is like froth, having by his thoughts made this (idea)
as lasting as a citadel, fights Mâra with wisdom as a weapon; and having overcome him,
he will keep to a houseless state.

38. He who has discerned that this world is like froth, having by his thoughts made this (idea)
as lasting as a citadel, fights Mâra with wisdom as a weapon; and having overcome him,
he will keep to a houseless state.

39 (89). He whose mind is devoted to meditating on the seven branches of the bodhi, who is free
from all attachment (upadana), who has cast off attachment, is cleansed of the stains
of misery, and goes beyond sorrow (parinibbuta) in this world.

40. He who watches over his mind as does the yak over the end of its tail, is merciful to all
creatures, and his happiness will not grow less (in this o r l d ) .

