1 (201). FROM victory proceeds rancour; the defeated foe is in misery: if one casts off victory
and defeat he will find the happiness of peace.

2. He who causes misery to others in seeking for his own welfare brings witout distinction misery
on friends and foes.

3 (131). Re who seeking happiness persecutes and punishes other beings also seeking for happiness,
will not find happiness in the other world.

4 (132). He who seeking happiness does not persecute and punish beings seeking for happiness,
will find happiness in the other world.

5 (169). Perform carefully the precepts of the law; abstain from all evil deeds: he who keeps
the law finds happiness in this world and in the other.6. The observance of the law brings
happiness; he who keeps the law is guarded by the law; he who keeps the law goes not on
the evil way; for this is the observance of the law beneficial.

7. He who keeps the law is sheltered by the law, as is one in summer by a large umbrella; he
who keeps the law goes not on the evil way, for this reason is the observance of the law
beneficial.8. The careless man who observes not the law, no matter who he may be, goes to
damnation; he who keeps not the law is as surely destroyed as is the black snake that one
has caught by the middle.9. The rewards of the righteous and of the unrighteous are not the
same; the unrighteous go to hell, the righteous find the way to happiness.

10-11. When one is charitable and when one gives battle, if well understood these (operations)
are primarily alike;l as I have said (or it has been said) that .being charitable and fighting
are alike, be careful in both cases and rely not on what is bad. A single man well
equipped can conquer (a legion) of badly equipped rabble (?),2 so likewise if one gives through
faith, even though a little, he will thereby find happiness in the other world.

12. He who has been victorious in a hundred battles, and who has overcome all his enemies, is
not so great a conqueror, I declare, as he who gives with a pure heart.

