1. HE who, though having ornamental apparel, is righteous, controlled, quiet, restrained, leading
a life of holiness 1 (brahmacharya), who neither harms or kills any living I thing,
he is a Brâhmana, a Çramana, he is a Bhixu.2 (141). It is not by nakedness, by long hair,
by dirt, by fasting, or by sleeping on the bare ground, not by dust and dirt: or by devoting
oneself to sitting motionless, that men become pure and leave their doubts behind.

3. Whatever Çramanas and Brâhmanas there be who have passions, they will not put an end to sinfulness
(the âsravas), and will experience the suffering of passing from life to life (transmigrating).
I[( 56,1)]4. Whatever Çramanas and Brâhmanas there be who have passions, they
will not put an end to sensation (vedanâ), and will experience the suffering of passing
from life to life.

5. Whatever Çramanas and Brâhmanas there be who have passions, and who have but a foolish object
in view: they will experience the suffering of passing from life to life.6. Whatever
Çramanas and Brâhmanas there be who have passions,2 the foolish, stupid men mill experience
the suffering of passing from life to life.

7. Whatever Çramanas and Brâhmanas there be who have passions, they will not find the blessed
ideal (nirvâṇa), and will experience the suffering of passing from life to life.

8 (394). 0 fool! what is the use of thy long locks? what is the use of thy garment of skin?
Within thee there abides darkness; the outside thou makest clean.

9 (393). One does not become a Brâhmana by his family, by his long locks, by his lineage; he
who possesses the law of truth and who is pure, he is a Brâhmana.

10. One does not become a Brâhmana by his family, by his long locks, by his lineage; he who
casts away all sins both great and small, him, because he has cast away sin, I call a Brâhmana.

11. A man is not a Çramana on account of his shaven head, a man is not a Brâhmana because he
says " Om! " He who knows what is virtue, and who is pure, he is a Brâhmana.

12. A man is not a Çramana on account of his shaven head; a man is not a Brâhmana because he
says " Om! " He who casts away all sins both great and small, he, because he has cast away
sins, is a Çramana, a Brâhmana.

