48. He who passes beyond this stronghold of affections and the river of transmigration, who
having crossed over (i.e., having found the way to nirvâna), has not both his mind and thoughts
preoccupied about going to the other shore, who has left behind attachment (upâdâna),
he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

49 (410). He who has no desire for this world or for the other, who has put an end to all fondness
for existence, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

50. He who is without love for this world or for the other, who is without love, who has completely
cast it off, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

51. He who, casting off what is pleasant and unpleasant, has become cool (i.e., has found contentment),
who is without sin, who has overcome the whole world, who is steadfast, he, I
declare, is a Brâhmana.

52 (417). He who, having cast off human attachment? has left behind the attachment of the gods,
he who is free from all attachment, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

53 (420). He whose way the Devas, Gandharvas, and men comprehend not, he whose passiveness mankind
does not comprehend, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.54. He for whom there exists no law
that is not known and understood, he who sees to the remotest parts of knowledge, he, I
declare, is a Brâhmana.

55 (423). He who, knowing his former abodes (existences), perceives heaven (svarga) and hell,
the Muni who has found the way to put an end to birth, who is perfected in knowledge, who
knows the termination of suffering, he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

56. He whose mind is perfectly emancipated, who is wise, who is delivered from all passions,
who possesses the triple knowledge l (trividya), he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

57. He who understands the deaths, changes, and births of all sentient creatures, who has the
all-penetrating eye (sammanta chakkhu), who is perfectly enlightened (Buddha), he, I declare,
is a Brâhmana.

58. He who has left all attachment behind, who is without affliction, without joy, who is reflective,
and who teaches (others), he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

59. He who is a Muni, a conqueror (djina), the greatest of Rischis, the chief of chiefs: the
greatest of bulls (usabham), who has nought to seek for, who has been washed clean, who is
perfectly enlightened (Buddha), he, I declare, is a Brâhmana.

